juji what on Earth is the vanam lift it
is a lift that Rob vanam did where he
set the record and it held for 30 years
really long time and a lot of people
started to break it and then uh people
kept pigging me to try it and then I
broke it a couple months ago oh
yeah
go this is the setup we do do VES and is
there like regulation like is it
supposed to be on your calf on your
ankle or it it doesn't look like it I
was just
and Rob bam messaged uh messaged me
publicly and said congratulations on
breaking the record so you know I got
his approval it's good enough for me I
think you had it on your calves right I
did yes so and I'm doing it on my calves
something like that but it feels kind of
like a weird pancake stretch yeah which
is right up your alley bro well this
this mirror is almost identically an
exercise that I call the standing
pancake so when when I when I do
something like this where I I'll
literally just sink down yep and Float
above the ground wow I cannot do that
all right so I I'll just try this I'll
leave it where where the bench is at
right now we'll see how it it
works wow there we go oh yeah okay oh
yeah the balance is going to be crazy
difficult this that's that and holding
the weight of the hardest part okay yeah
the this is going to be a balancing
exercise I think oh my goodness the
secret to this lift is that I don't
think it's a flexibility lift I think
it's a balancing lift with a lot of
upper body strength yeah I don't expect
much from this oh my God come on guys
come on get it we'll see all right well
we got a selection of dumbbells let's
start going up in the weight
yeah okay this dude's just casually
walking around body weight and dumbbells
over here yep something like that gr
right that was pretty good thank
appreciate
that and then you go for
dumbbell Pi it up Bo bounce you's see
this balce from the side that's lift
when you hold it right there yes I don't
remember how I got out of this I think I
just rolled out you rolled you rolled
out of it like a total
ninja yeah this jump is more scary than
the actual Li not going to lie ah dude
you had air time to spare there that was
terrifying okay oh my God from
[Music]
here he's going to rock this lift lift
you're you're going to find that as you
go up and wait it doesn't really get
hard until the very end um it it might
actually it might help you balance a
little bit of extra weight will actually
kind of help you like stabilize yeah I
was anticipating 40 to just be insanely
difficult so that'll be interesting to
see with
[Music]
me that is so impressive and then when
you get your balance you kind of like
relax a little bit for my here this
flexibility is uh just so good look at
that oh this is very difficult really
yeah
got it David wow yeah
right you said something interesting
when you held that weight up there and
you were there and you were like once
you have it here you can just relax and
sink into it a little bit well I'm right
there squeezing the hell out if I
relaxed I would probably just fall
through oh okay yeah later in the video
I I think maybe you should try and vanam
me and see what happens where are you
there you are oh dude that's going to be
sick oh oops
that
sounds what you think that is impressive
yep there you go oh that's depth for
sure T see we got a 60 lb you want to go
for it or do you want to do 50 you did
40 last uh I would go to 60 yeah so much
fun I've never I've never been able to
do this type of stuff with anyone this
is so cool yeah this is very unique I
don't think there's many people that you
could just say hey come over let's just
max out our
vanam yeah dude this so much fun I'm
loving this thank you oh man so this is
lb it feels
heavy oh my God come on guys come on get
it
David look up
D yeah
yes that was so difficult like wa I'm
like
bouncing what are you feeling what what
I think the main thing I felt there was
my adductors were flexing a lot but the
lagging point for me was actually my
hamstring okay so I I didn't almost
strain it but I felt that if I if I go
much heavier than this I would probably
strain my hamstring trying to hold
myself up in this position how about the
upper body upper body was fine I'm
nowhere near the upper body limit for
sure wow okay yeah so you have an option
of do a cleaner lift with that or you
pick something else that's relatively
around that weight that's
interesting shape that's a good idea you
like that yeah that is incredible but
out of my le 135 yeah well you know I
think I
might oh this feels like home what is
this 45 there is a heavy bag yeah light
or there's the dummy dummy is how heavy
is the dummy I think oh isn't that
perfect then so he'll be lifting a dummy
I'll be lifting him I love where this is
going like things are going to get a
little weird
only a little this looks pretty bad yeah
I don't think I don't think this is how
I'm going to live here I I think I have
a different strategy that I would use oh
god oh all love
here oh this looks
difficult ah hold on come on stand
up let's
go
that looks so challenging cuz the weight
is so far in front of you I wouldn't LIF
it that way I think I'm going to try and
throw him over my shoulder this doesn't
look good
either I don't know what I'm doing here
all right let's
uh yeah this is going to be difficult so
sorry to interrupt but I know you've
been seeing my shoes these are my palas
I've been wearing Barefoot style shoes
for eight plus years but something
different happens when you have that toe
separation and a tiny bit of C so you
still feel like you're Barefoot but
instead of slamming your feet on
concrete all day it feels more like
leaves like you're in a forest and you
still get that toe articulation that
your feet are meant to do if you want to
experience this go to pva.com it'll be
linked in the description and use code
stay flexy for 15% off all right
buddy this is
hilarious oh god oh all love
here
[Music]
[Laughter]
I think I'm going to rest a little bit
but I want to try that again okay we're
finding our technique right now this is
a this is going to be in the rule book
from here on now no longer will this be
called The vanam Lift what are we
calling it the damn man the damn man
well now it's got all the room beats all
right buddy you ready this this is the
way I
[Music]
think there we go good LIF let's
go and a better Dismount at that too
maybe maybe I need some smelling salts
for this yeah I'm so serious and I've
never even I don't even I'm I'm
terrified so how do I how do I do this
uh
carefully it's pretty
powerful you didn't take the cap off
dude no that's it's okay you don't need
to son of a take it
away my brain hurts oh God go come on
David you got it y
yeah oh my eyes are
watering I think we got it you did dude
yeah your eyes aren't lying man it
smacked you didn't it oh that was strong
I love you buddy he's did all right he's
he's put up with a lot today so we got
to figure out how I'm going to pick you
up experiment okay so I can I can hold
myself like in a ball no problem and if
you want me to be like sideways yeah
maybe you could grab my arm I think I
can do that um let me see here hold on
yeah experiment with this cuz let's see
if I can even hold this so I'm in a
splits yeah then I guess I have to come
in here yeah oh wow you're tight yeah oh
yeah yeah I can I can hold that okay can
you do that I think so I just got to
make sure I don't elbow you in the face
oh don't worry about me help me I mean I
care about your face I'm indestructible
just don't drop me on my
head oh let's
go
where are you there you
[Music]
[Applause]
go yeah oh wow you no
way that's a lot of effort you know you
didn't do a you know you did a proper
lift that was heavy and your nose just
starts bleeding jeez yeah where do you
think you're going to go with this one
uh I think I need to train my hamstrings
a little bit more but I am not done with
this lips for sure I'm going to come
back to this so nothing sketchy when
you're trying it right oh oh it'll be
sketchy oh it'll be sketchy it'll be
sketch no I'm going to go wipe my face
now baby yeah do it stay flexy guys stay
flexy stay
flexy